This is a pocket-size 8 terbte NVME NAS
that runs locally on a Raspberry Pi. But
here's why this is different from all
the PI NAS tutorials that you have seen
online. [music]
This one actually has a local Quen 3.5
latest AI agent baked onto it, which by
the way runs completely locally,
allowing you to do advanced file search,
summarize your files, organize all your
data on the NAS and even more. And yeah,
you can access all your data through
your MacBook, your Windows laptop, your
Android or iPhone from anywhere in the
world. An average person here spends
anywhere from 10 up to $50 a month
behind storage, including myself where I
used to spend money for Google Drive,
for One Drive, for iCloud. But I'm
ending all of that with just this. This
has 8 TB of memory, enough for me to
store all my images, my files, and my
data locally, and sync it with my
MacBook and my iPhone completely for
free from anywhere in the world. And
yes, you are not paying a single penny
[music] for any of this. This completely
runs locally on just 15 to 20 W of power
on this Raspberry Pi. A quick note to
actually set up your Raspberry Pi, to
set up your micro SD card to load the
data on, all of that is done step by
step in this video that is flashing on
the I button and also link below in the
description. So, I'm not going to repeat
that again to make this video even
longer. Please follow that. It's super
easy to set the setup micro SD card up.
But once that is ready and you're
actually ready to SSH into the Pi, let's
continue from there. And basically to
give you idea in this video, first we
will learn how to initialize the NVME
SSD on the Raspberry Pi. Then we'll
install Nextcloud. Then we'll install
Tail Scale. That will basically allow us
to SSH from anywhere in the world.
Finally, we will basically go through
the architecture of the local AI bot
that runs on the Pi that lets you do all
the smart things with the NAS [music]
and then we'll wrap this video up with
future plans to expand this into even
bigger project.
All right, to build this first you would
of course need a Raspberry Pi. In this
case, this is a Raspberry [music] Pi 58
GB version. It's plenty fast. Should be
perfectly okay for the kind of stuff
that [music] you're trying to do. So,
that's that. Of course, to power this,
you would need a power brick. I really,
really recommend you to invest in a
decent power brick. This is a 25 watt
one. This is what I would recommend.
Don't buy the cheap ones. Underpowering
a Raspberry Pi does [music] not end up
well in a lot of cases. So, invest in a
good one. Needless to say, you need
somewhere to store all of the data. This
is a 8 terabte NVME M.2 SSD. You
certainly don't need that big. I just
had this for some other work and
>> [music]
>> um I just wanted to test it. So, this is
that um this is certainly overkill, but
it's lot it's futurep proof. 8 TB NVME
M.2 is plenty fast. So, that's the other
thing you would need. Then the most
important thing that you would need is
an adapter, a hat that sits on the Pi
where you can stick your NVME SSD to.
[music] For that, we're using one from
Frenov. So, I've also used products from
FOV before, for example, such as their
display as being shown here. So, I
really like their product. So, FOV, if
you're watching, big shout out. You
provide really this one is pretty cheap.
It costs like $15 Canadian dollars. So,
let's unbox it and see what it comes
with. This, in theory, should support
this slot. So, we'll I'm actually
unboxing this for the first [music]
time. So, let's see if it does. Okay, so
it does come with uh some uh standoffs
in the bag. Uh [music] it also comes
with its own nice uh screwdriver, which
is really good, although I have mine. Um
and most importantly, it also comes with
a ribbon [music] connector that you
would actually need to get this working.
So, uh, be really careful with this
ribbon connectors. These things can tend
to just snap and break, right? So,
[music] handle that with care. So,
taking out the PI NVME had. Yeah, this
thing was just um some $18 Canadian
dollars. Yeah, let's let's actually
install [music] this.
Uh, there you go. So, this is how it
should look like. And the whole idea is
then yeah [music] uh this thing
basically just sits on top like that.
All right. So the next step is to of
course connect the connector here. Again
just like the monitor the idea is you
want to first pull it and then press and
[music] pull. Right. So that basically
uh brings out the latch. So my idea is I
actually want to install this on the
top. So for that of course I would need
to basically create this um extended
standoffs which is [music] basically by
connecting two. So let's just do that
part. Please be careful while installing
this. And once you fit it, you basically
again press both of them at the same
time so that it like fixes, right?
It's not quite a hat, but this is how
you Now, bear in mind if you have a fan
module that goes in there, you could
totally do that. I don't have for this
purpose. I will get one in the future.
But by the way, links to everything you
need will be in the description down
below, so feel free to check it out from
there.
Once assembled, this is how the hardware
should look like. So, the hat fits in
perfectly. This is how the ribbon
connector gets [music] connected here.
And you still have your Ethernet port in
case you want to connect it to your
local router. I will not do that in this
case. I'll just make it talk to the
Wi-Fi. And then your SD card goes in
here. This is where the you'll boot the
OS for the first time. Um, again, a
detailed video of me doing that should
be flashing up here. Um, and I actually
did a stepby-step instruction showing
how to prepare the SD card and [music]
SSH it for the first time. Please
consider watching that video so that you
get detailed instructions on how to set
this up properly. Right. All right. So
now let's connect this to the power
adapter, turn it on, and then let's SSH
in for the [music] first time and see
how things go.
So I have a full guide written on the
site which also will be down linked in
the description to my GitHub repo which
gives you all of the steps to do this.
But the first step of course is to first
of all SSH into it. And then we want to
change the boot order such that the
Raspberry Pi actually boots with the
NVME and not the SSD. So that's fairly
simple. I'm just doing that right now.
And just give it a while for the process
to finish. And after it finishes, you
need to do a complete recycle. So once
you do the pseudo reboot from the
Raspberry Pi config, as you saw,
basically it'll get disconnected and
then it'll try to reboot. But what I
want you to do is basically [music]
stop the reboot, take the ribbon, take
the power cable out, wait for 10
seconds, and then power it back in, and
then we'll basically continue with it.
Otherwise, this doesn't just give the OS
a hard reboot to basically identify the
SSD onto it. Once that's done, we can
come in and pass the lsk command to now
see that the Raspberry Pi actually
detects the NVME SSDs, which is very
important. And then once it does,
basically, we will start to unmount uh
the SD card um and then [music]
completely wipe the uh SD card out. I
[music] purposely run everything as is
just to show you that the process will
fail. If your NVME drive is greater than
2 TB, this whole process will basically
fail. [music] So the RPI clone GitHub
repo by Jeff Curling will fail. So we
have to come up with a different way to
format our SD card. So for that, first
I'll copy the boot uh all the boot
information and the file system
information onto the SSD first from the
SD card. And then basically we have to
configure it in such a way that now we
can perfectly um unmount it and boot it.
And then again we'll do the same step of
waiting for 10 seconds.
All right. So the SD card is now out of
this. Now in theory if I should try to
SSH in we should be able to [music]
basically see this work. So let's go
into the terminal again try to SSH in
and see [music] if this thing works. Of
course, this is the scary bit, but the
SSH did work. All right, now we are
officially ready to install Next Cloud
onto your Raspberry Pi SSD such that now
basically this SSD will be easily
accessible from anywhere on our Mac or
mobile or from anywhere in the world.
This is where the magic happens. It's
literally an open-source version of,
let's say, iCloud or Google Drive. That
is the main driver for this video. So,
let's install that. Set everything up.
install tail scale and [music] then um
I'll show you everything on on the
terminal step by step. So now that we
know that the it boots out of the SSD uh
after removing the SD card, we're ready
to install NextCloud, which is this
open-source software that basically lets
us manage all of the files just like you
know iCloud does or one drive does. Once
that's installed with Snap, you can
basically go into the uh um IP address
of your Raspberry Pi with the port and
you should see Nextcloud app. It's
fairly easy to set it up. Now, I'm
actually doing the same thing on my
mobile and it's super easy to do. As you
can see, the file just appears. Once
next cloud is installed, we will
basically install Tailcale, which is
basically a VPN mesh network that allows
you to access your device from
everywhere. So you have to authenticate
yourself first and add every device to
one Gmail account. That's how you can
manage everything. Um you [music] know
everything is under one uh account. So
that'll help you to basically uh sync
all your devices across your phone.
Needless to say you also have to install
tail scale on your mobile just as I said
and basically add [music] every uh add
your mobile to the same tail scale
account with which you add your MacBook
and the Raspberry Pi. [music] So
everything is under one VPN mesh. This
allows you to, you know, access
everything from [music] uh anywhere. So
right now, as you can see, I'm on my uh
device uh network, not the Wi-Fi, but I
can still basically access files bas I'm
just uploading a random PDF onto the
mask just to show you know the sync is
pretty fast.
>> [music]
>> So, as you can see, I recently created
this folder called iPhone uploads and
basically uploaded that logo PDF and
voila, it comes up nice and clean. So,
the sync is pretty good. Like, it's
instantaneous almost. It just depends on
your upload speeds. And since this is
running on the SSD, this thing is
blazing fast, right? Repeating the same
process. So, I'm also installing Next
Cloud um onto my Mac. And this will
basically allow me to sync files
completely out of the box just like
[music] you would do on um you know
Google Drive or let's say iCloud. So it
so you can actually find the next cloud
as a part of your files. So you just
drag and drop and it automatically
syncs. Uh there is an option to add
whatever big folder you want but I just
chose a particular folder. All right.
Now that we have all of this working
just fine, the next step is to basically
deploy the local Quen 3.5 model onto the
Pi for the smart brain. And that is what
we're going to walk step by step in this
section. So keep watching. So for this
part, I'm actually going with the latest
Quen 3.5.8
billion parameter model. They just
released it literally a week back. So
this is the latest from Quen. is really
good and fast and great at like agentic
work. So the whole idea is of course you
have your mobile phone and your computer
as the you know the user devices that
you can chat with um u with your NAS
right so this is the mobile phone that
you're watching this on right and then
that basically will talk to a chat UI
which basically we are making with you
know static HTML very simple so it looks
like that again everything will be down
in the description so all you have to do
is just clone my repo and that's it
that's that's all um of course the NAS
needs to have its own uh [music] you
know brain that not only receives the
messages but also passes it to again an
orchestrator kind of a workflow. It's
the exact same kind of mentality that I
showed you guys when I built my own
local AI agent on the Raspberry Pi.
Please watch that video uh cuz that goes
in even more depth. Um then of course
there's Olama um because that's the
local brain that's running the Quen
model and the orchestrator then
basically uh reroutes all your requests
depending on what it decides to uh the
Quen um 3.5 model and not only that it
also needs to have its own like tool
chest right so uh it it has bunch of
functionalities tools that the
orchestrator then you know gives
delegates to different tools depending
on what you day, right? So for the
tools, you have search files, you have
list file properties, you can, you know,
read your files, you can uh list one of
the recent files and these are like
simple um Linux commands that you type
anyways, but then you're just packaging
it and giving it to your agent to do all
of that for you. Uh and all you do is
just talk to it in a natural language.
You just like send a text that hey, what
is this file about? Or you know, could
you arrange my files and it'll do that.
So this is exactly what I'm doing here.
I can you know converse with it and then
I can ask hey can you tell me about this
particular file then it will just go
ahead and tell me about that. Then I can
ask it hey is do we have more storage? I
mean the options are kind of endless.
But bear in mind that this is still a
teeny tiny model running locally on a
Pi. It's not that capable enough but I'm
just trying to show you guys what's
possible. All right. So if you enjoyed
watching the video please give a like
and give a comment down below. telling
if you have any questions. Again, all of
the code shown below will be in the in
my GitHub repo down below. So, feel free
to use it, clone it. If you have any
issues, raise a PR, raise a issue. I'll
be happy to resolve all of them with
time. My plans moving forward will be to
basically integrate this with my local
AI agent Jansky for which the video
should also be flashing up there and
basically giving all this ability to
Jansky or you know an open claw or any
of those cloud AI models but I'm also
happy to integrate all of those here and
I will catch you guys in the next one.
Until then, let's keep